---
title: Patricia's Personal Statement
description: CppCon's Failure to Protect the Community
author: Patricia Aas
layout: post
icon: fa-film
image: "/assets/images/cppcon_personal_statement.png"
redirect_from:
- /cppcon/
---

## Content Warning

This document contains material on rape and child sexual exploitation that may be harmful or traumatic to some
audiences.

## TL;DR

CppCon leadership and the C++ Foundation board have worked in secret to protect a person convicted of rape and
possession of Child Sexual Abuse Imagery. They have refused any transparency into a process where they have decided to
allow this person full access to CppCon as an attendee, speaker and trainer. This person is well-known and trusted in
the C++ community.

### Personal Statement

I never wanted to write this. I am heartbroken that I have to.

I wanted this to come from [#include <C++>][1] an organization I was one of the founding members of and have been an
admin for since the beginning, but it is clear that we do not have the same objectives here, so I will do this as me,
Patricia, not as an admin for [#include <C++>][1], a position I might very well lose as a result of this.

Over the past 4 months we, representatives for [#include <C++>][1], have edited various versions of the following
documents.

Maybe [#include <C++>][1] will commit to them, maybe they won't. I will, however, not wait any longer. I first said we
had to publish this 4 months ago, but some people felt that we should give CppCon and the C++ Foundation board time to
come to the right conclusions. 4 months have come and gone, and nothing has happened. Some people are still holding out
hope for change on the part of CppCon and the C++ Foundation board, but publishing these documents is not a threat, it
is a step towards transparency and a commitment to actual inclusion. I hope that they can form a basis for future
transparent action. However, even if they don't, people have a right to know so that they make the decisions that are
right for them.

This is absolutely not the right time, and I probably should have done this sooner, but we've been in a global pandemic
for years now, and there never was a right time. Unfortunately time is running out, people are making plans for their
year, they need to be able to make informed decisions. I hope those decisions involve not supporting CppCon in any way,
to signal clearly that we need change. This plea goes out to sponsors, trainers, speakers and attendees.

## Documents proposed and developed with #include <C++>

[Proposed: Transparency Report on CppCon Safety][2]

[Proposed: #include <C++> Position on CppCon Safety][3]

[Proposed: Letter of Support][4]

[1]: https://www.includecpp.org/

[2]: /2022/03/08/proposed-cppcon_safety__transparency_report.html

[3]: /2022/03/08/proposed-cppcon_safety__include_cpp_position.html

[4]: /2022/03/08/proposed-cppcon_safety__letter_of_support.html
